# CSC510-HW4
## Reflection

Over the past few milestones, you've had the opportunity to apply several software engineering practices and processes in the design and implementation of a project.

## Design
### What was most helpful about thinking about design and architecture of your project?
  For me, the design process of the project was great for developing connections between the user experience and the actual back end of the design. We could create a vision and then think together - what all would it take to make this happen? Obviously, we couldn't possibly know all the details but the planning allowed us to think about the structure of our bot and the different components would interact in order to present the experience we imagined. The use cases also allowed us to develop ideas for making our bot more useful. When we first designed the bot we had one idea for the interactions but the use cases made us consider what happens if there are no "current standings" or what if the user considers our initial configurations to be too annoying with too many notifications or chat prompts. The design sketches also were great for visualizing and considering what applications we would need or possible api when using the bot. When we designed the architecture we also considered that we would need to think about how we would store information or send it. Overall, it allowed us to be more thorough. 

### What was most difficult? What would you do differently?
  For me, the most difficult was considering situations outside of our use cases. When we imagine how our bot would work - it was hard to imagine how it might not work. So we used team experiences to consider what might go wrong, or what should be an additional consideration for each use case. Looking back - we could've considered making it perform in a very particular way to make that easier on the design process - but we decided to try to make it more customizable instead. I think in the end, us making the bot more customizable was actually a great decision to combat possible issues with the bot performance as it allows the users to be more in control of how they would want it to perform. 

### What design methods might you want to try again in the future on another project?
  I'm so happy with how using use cases or the story board worked out for our team. We we able to really focus on the vision of the bot and then work backwards - which from my past experience works out way better than starting from the back and trying to build up to something useful. The story board showed us how the bot should perform and the usecases allowed us to consider possible sub stories or how to make our bot even better by adding customizable components. 

## Testing
### What was most helpful about implementing integration tests and mocking in your project?
  Integration tests were a massive help for us when creating the bot files. We ran into a few problems and because we used testing we could easily find where things went wrong. Even when the testing didn't find the actual problem - it helped us locate where in the code it might be. Because of that it saved us on a huge code formatting issues where blank '' input wasn't recoginzed by the chat builder we were using. The testing also allowed us the make sure our chat builder was outputting what we expected. There were a few times it didn't and we were able to catch that easily. The mocking infastructure was hard for me to understand at first, but after using it for a little while it became so useful for making sure our bot was working the way we intended without actually having to set up the integration of different services. It made for creating quick changes and using mocked data to test different results from our bot. 

### What was most difficult? What would you do differently?
  For me, understanding how to create good tests was hard. I struggled with thinking in terms of "what am I trying to make this function result with?" and instead would test for the existence of things that didn't really matter in terms of what we were trying to get the bot to perform. I worked in particular with the chat component and would check if the bot registered a prompt instead of returning a reply. So I would miss things and then realized later that I was working on the wrong test. I think that was a lack of me understanding the components others were working on and I should've made sure during scrums I understood how our code would interact with one another instead of just making assumptions. It did help teach me how to do better and more useful tests. I started thinking in terms of "What is the result of this portion of code?" instead of just checking for pieces of the code. 

### What testing methods might you want to try again in the future on another project?
  I loved using the assert statements in this project - it was very easy set up for understanding what my code was supposed to do and allowed me to catch mistakes quickly. It actually saved me a few times when the bot was returning things - but not exactly what I wanted. I think in the future this will save me a lot of headache on debugging and possible missed mistakes. 

## Process
### What was most helpful about implementing scrum-ban in your project?  
  I was so pleased with it because it forced us to do consistent updates. I think it breaks the mindset of not wanting to bother the other team mates or not wanting to look like you are struggling and instead opens the floor to everyone talking about both their achievements and their set backs with the code. It also solved my earlier problem of knowing exactly what I was working on - but not so much what anyone else was. Because we were updating each other it was easy to see where the code might have conflicts or where we should make changes to have better interactions. If we needed to use refractoring or pair programming we could just do that together after identifying where it might be necessary together as a team. It also saved anyone from doing the same work twice because we knew what everyone else finished. The kanban board also helped with seeing the work process and making sure that everyone was doing equal work. 

### What was most difficult? What would you do differently?
  The biggest difficulty was time management for creating the scrum meetings - because everyone had conflicting schedules often times the scrum meetings were very late or might miss a member of the team. I think in another setting we would have planned a few weeks in advance or had a set scrum time to work our daily schedules around. I think because it was pretty last minute it was hard for everyone to make accommodations. It was also hard to keep the kanban board updated consistently because we weren't used to using it on a daily basis. I think we should've implemented doing a daily kanban update either after or before scrum meetings so we could talk about it and make sure that the kanban was accurate and updated. 

### What software processes or practices might you want to try again in the future on another project?
  I would love to work more using the overall "Agile Methodology". I thought that what we implemented - kanban, scrum, refactoring, and pair programming was a drastic difference in production and overall team symbiosis that I would be more than happy to try further practices. I think if I had project in which I was delivering based on a customer's wants I would desire to practice the Feature Driven Development so that the design process is built entirely around the major picture. The XP process was also great for consistent feedback, making quick changes, and developing better communication in our team. I honestly wish I could apply this method to all classes and forms of work. I think it helped with making sure everyone had an equal work load and was making consistent progress as well as dealing with problems that arose quickly. 

## Overall
### Considering all the design and architecture methods, testing practices, and software processes you've encountered---compare and constrast the benefits of the different practices and how they might be useful together.

  Overall, I was more than satisfied with everything I learned in this course and can see how useful the practices and methods I learned were. I could see consistent progress in our team's knowledge and efficiency everytime we applied a new method. Using Wireframes helped us imagine a user interface and make comparisons for what would be required in order to produce something similar. While using story boards helped us imagine and process how the bot chat would flow similar to the idea of the flow maps. Uses cases would offer us a similar idea about how the flow works but also offer us alternative flows but without the visual. Using the repository allowed us to create and write code with comparison to the whole design. Scrum was useful in consistent updates but also tedious time-wise. While Kanban boards alllowed us to update but not ask too many questions or interact and sometimes had update delays because of forgetfulness. Acceptance testing was great for making sure the overall use cases were matched by our bot but didn't tell us more about how our code was responding or if the design was suitable on the backside of things. While unit testing allowed us to have a very thorough check into whether each function is behaving as we planned but doesn't show us the overall bot working at the end as a finished product. Pair programming and refactoring allowed us to solve problems quickly as a team instead of struggling individually. Mocking also allowed us to design quicker and switch between real sources of data and mock data without impacting the implementation of the code. All together, it created a more collaborative and constructive team experience and allowed us to build our bot on a solid foundation without concerns of forgetting the client expereince or possible alternatives. 
